In terms of variables and types, so how to
declare a variable, there are two ways.
If you know the type or
if you wanna explicitly use the type,
you use the type name as a prefix.
So you say int data,
similar to C, or Java.
Okay, you start with a type and
then the name.
But something that we have
here is type inference.
Type inference means
that if you don't wanna
define the type every time you
can use bar as in JavaScript.
But in this case bar needs something
that we are assigning at that time.
If I create a variable without a type,
it becomes something of type dynamic.
That is actually pretty flexible, dynamic
is like the default type in JavaScript,
everything in JavaScript
is kind of dynamic, okay?
It can be anything actually.
So it's a bad practice in that
to create variables dynamic
unless you have a real use case for
using dynamic, okay?
So when you use bar be careful
to actually assign the value.
And if not, don't use bar and
use explicitly the type that
you wanna use on that variable.
Okay, so you need to get used
to these differences if you're
coming from things like JavaScript.
These are mutable variables, so
everything you set a with the type or
the bar keyword it's a mutable variable.
Then we have immutable variables.
In this case instead of bar, we use
final or we apply final to the type.
And final is a variable that cannot be
changed after it's set for the first time.
That's an immutable variable,
okay, make sense?
Fine, and then we have constants that
are using the const keyword, and
we are going to use
const a lot in flutter.
You will see that it's kind of annoying
at one point, asking us to use const.
So, in JavaScript, we do have const, okay?
But what do you think, question for
you, are they constants or
immutable variables in JavaScript
when you use the const keyword?
It sounds weird because
const seems constant, right?
That actually they are more
like immutable variables.
So first, what's the difference between
an immutable variable and a constant?
Does anyone know?
>> From a JavaScript side or from-
>> On any sides like a generic
programming.
Typically we have a difference between
an immutable variable and a constant.
>> Const would be at compile time so
it's set and
it's more performant because
it's already defined.
>> Exactly, so the constant is
actually something that we define and
we set at compilation time.
In JavaScript, we don't have compilation
time so that's why technically
we kind of not using that idea,
because we don't compile, okay?
An immutable variable,
it's actually a variable, so
it's actually a place in memory
while our app is running, but
after it was set, it cannot be changed.
But I don't need to have a value at
compile time for immutable variable,
that's the difference.
And for the constant, I actually need
to have a value at compile time,
okay, make sense?
Types, here,
we have a mix between using lowercase and
uppercase, but everything is an object.
So don't get confused here
with languages like Java, for
example in Java, you have int and
you also have integer with capital I.
This is Java, okay?
And this is a basic data type and
this is an object, but
actually here int is an object,
everything is an object in Dart.
And we have some basic type with
lowercase, they use lowercase,
because they say that when
you're coming from Java or
from C, you're more used to
use int with lowercase i.
So we have int, double, bool,
dynamic, that's anything.
And we also have num, say num,
that's a number that you don't
define the type of the number, okay?
Actually this has to do with ROP,
double and int,
they're inheriting from num.
So it's like a generic version,
okay, of a number.
And remember what happens
when we export to JavaScript,
the JavaScript runtime
takes precedence there.
So that means that a number, in fact,
I'm not sure if you know
the type of number in JavaScript.
I mean, if you use typeof of four,
what you get in return number,
okay, so it's a number.
So that num kind of reference the number
type in the JavaScript runtime, okay?
Strings, you can use double quotes or
single quotes, okay,
both are working and as in JavaScript and
they're doing exactly the same.
You will see that today,
most of the design guidelines for
Flutter are actually
suggesting double quotes,
just to pick one, okay,
the same as in HTML.
So in HTML you can use single
quotes today if you want to,
but it's kind of typical to see HTML
with single quotes for attributes.
Well same here, you can create multiline,
literal strings with triple,
double quotes.
So if I have a long description,
you can use triple,
double quotes and
then you end up somewhere and
then everything is part of the string.
This is similar to other
languages such as Kotlin or Swift,
they have the same multiline experience.
It's similar to
the backtick in JavaScript,
when you open the backtick of string.
And also within the string,
one line or multiline string,
you can use the dollar
sign to actually replace
templates with variables or
with expressions.
So for example,
if I have the price here, it will say,
the price is something like this.
For example, so in this case,
this is going to say the price is 3 and
it will then multiply
the other price by 1.1, and
it will convert the result of
that expression into a string.
Okay, so to the backtick or
the template string in JavaScript,
that's actually the name of that, yeah.
>> So
type keywords are capitalized like string?
>> So the answer is not always,
because int is not with capital i,
double is not with capital i.
Let's say, and again,
I know what you're thinking,
that's because it's not an object.
No, that's not true, it's an object,
everything is an object in Dart.
But they made the choice when
they created the language to
use lowercase on the basic types,
integers, doubles.
And why not the string?
Because in Java, the string is a class and
its capital S, so
they tend to try to bring
Java developers into Dart.
So that's why a string is capital S.
If you're creating your own types,
the guideline is to start
with capital letters, okay?
But let's say that you will
see lowercase types only on
these basic ones, bool,
dabble, int, dynamic,
boid as well, we haven't seen it yet
and that's all.
For the other types,
they will be title case, so capitalized,
but have in mind everything
is an object anyway.
>> Now when you see a simple objects,
they're still full objects?
>> They are still objects,
full objects, so an int is an object,
it's an object, there is a class behind.
It's actually an object so
that integer value has methods and
properties like any other object.
It's based on a class, it's not
like an int in C or an int in Java,
where it's not actually an object,
here everything is an object.
You can actually even get
inside how Ctrl+click, or
Cmd+click on a Mac,
you can actually get into the int.
And you can see it's a class extending
from num, from number, so it's a class.
Because it's a class,
it can contain methods constructors,
and everything that we know on OOP.